Summary

Keywords
	JavaAWT java.awt - Abstract Windowing Toolkit - until java 1.1
	JavaSwing  javax.swing - The Swing classes are part of a more general set of GUI programming capabilities that are collectively referred to as the Java Foundation Classes
	JFC - Java Foundation Classes - GUI programming capabilities: Swing (javax.swing), 2d drawing (java.awt.geom), drag-and-drop (java.awt.dnd), accessibility (javax.accessibility)
	Event Dispatching Thread - the thread in which all interactions with the GUI are dealt with
	Pluggable Look and Feel - makes it possible to change the appearance of a component, to programmatically select the look-and-feel from those implemented as standard, or create custom
	UIManager, UI Delegate - Swing component provide for plugabble look and feel
	MVC - ModelViewController architecture  
	SMA - Separate Model architecture (Document/View architecture)

Model View Controller (MVC) architecture 
	The MODEL that stores the data that defines the component
	The VIEW that creates the visual representation of the component from the data in the model
	The CONTROLLER that deals with user interaction with the component and modifies the model and/or the view in response to a user action as necessary

Document/View architecture (Separate Model Architecture)
	Because the user interacts with the physical representation of the component, the controller operation is highly dependent on the implementation of the view. 
	For this reason, the view and controller are typically represented by a single composite object that corresponds to a view with an INTEGRATED CONTROLLER. 
	Swing implementation of SMA
	UI Delegate
		The Swing components provide for a pluggable look-and-feel by making the visual appearance of a component and the interface to the user the responsibility of an independent object
		This is the view+controller part of the MVC model. 
		A different UI delegate can provide a component with a new look-and-feel.
		UIManager can set the new look and feel -> UIManager.setLookAndFeel()

Structure
	Object 	<-
			java.awt
			Compontent (abstract) <- Container (abstract) <- Window <- Frame  	<-
																			  	javax.swing
																		   		JFrame 
	Component - Defines a component, which is an entity that can be displayed such as a button or a scrollbar (java.awt)
	Container - Defines a component that can contain other components (java.awt)
	Window - Defines a basic window with no title bar or border (java.awt)
	Frame - Define a window with title bar and border (java.awt)
	JFrame - Defines a frame which is a window with extended capabilities (java.swing)

Components
	A component represents a graphical entity of one kind or another that can be displayed on the screen. A component is any object of a class that is a subclass of Component.
	Component Subclasses summary
		JFrame (javax.swing)
			This is used as the basic Java application window. An object of this class has a title bar and provision for adding a menu. 
			You can also add other components to it. You usually subclass this class to create a window class specific to your application. 
			You then are able to add GUI components or draw in this window if required
		JWindow (javax.swing) 
			An object of this class type is a window with no title bar or window management icons. 
			One typical use for a JWindow object is for a subsidiary application window that is displayed on a secondary display where two or more displays are attached to a system.
		JDialog (javax.swing)
			You use this class to define a dialog window that is used for entering data into a program in various ways. 
			You usually code the creation of a dialog in response to some menu item or button being selected.
		JApplet  (javax.swing)
			This is the base class for a Java 2 applet — which is a program designed to run embedded in a web page. 
			All your Java 2 applets have this class as a base. You can draw in a JApplet and also add menus and other components.
		JComponent  (javax.swing)
			The subclasses of JComponent define a range of standard components such as menus, buttons, checkboxes, and so on. You use these classes to create the GUI for your application or applet.

JFrame
	A JFrame object represents the main window for an application (while a Window object does not) — you always need a JFrame object before you can create a Window object.
	Because JFrame has Container as a superclass, a JFrame object can contain other components
	The JFrame class adds functionality to the Frame class to support much more sophisticated facilities for drawing and displaying other components
	Display a window with Jframe
		Phase 1. Create a method to set the properties of the Frame
			Step 1. Create an object of type JFrame - Jframe aWindow = new JFrame("This is the window title");
			Step 2. Call a method for the object to set the size and position of the window - aWindow.setDecorations()
			Step 3. Call a method to display the window - aWindow.setVisible()
			Step 4. Call a method to set default closing options aWindow.setDefaultCloseOperations(JFrame.ExitOnClose)
				ExitOnClose - closing the window will stop the application (close all other windows)
				DisposeOnClose - when the last JFrame is closed, the application will stop
				DoNothingOnCloes - guess.
		Phase 2. Create a Runnable class that will call the properties setting method in its run() method
		Phase 3. Call SwingUtilities.invokeLater(new Runnable()); to execute the run() method for the Runnable object argument on the event dispatching thread
	Preventing Deadlocks - use the Event Dispatching Thread
		JFrame realization (preparing and setting to visible) should never be done in the main thread.
		After the GUI for an application has been realized by setVisible(true), modifying or querying it on the MAIN thread can cause deadlocks.
		Methods for Swing components are NOT THREAD-SAFE so they must all execute in a separate thread from the main thread
		The thread in which you create the GUI and in which all interactions with the GUI are dealt with is called the SWING EVENT DISPATCHING THREAD. 

JDialog
	Because the JDialog class is derived directly from the Window class, you can create a JDialog object in an application only in the context of a JFrame object.
	Parent of JDialog
		The constructors for the JDialog class generally require a JFrame object to be passed as an argument. 
		This JFrame object is referred to as the parent of the JDialog object. 
	JDialog position
		Because a JFrame object is the top-level window in an application, its size and location are defined relative to the screen. 
		A JDialog object with a JFrame object as a parent is located relative to its parent.
	JDialog as a Container
		The JApplet, JFrame, and JDialog classes are all containers because they have Container as a base class and therefore, in principle, can contain any kind of component.
		You DON'T ADD the components for your application or applet GUI directly to the JFrame or JApplet object for your program.

Window Panes
	When you want to add GUI components or draw in a window displayed from a JFrame object, you add the components to, or draw on, a WINDOW PANE that is managed by the JFrame object. 
	Window Panes are container objects that represent an area of a window, and they come in several different types.
	All the classes here that represent panes are themselves Swing components, defined in the javax.swing package
	Root Pane
		Corresponds
			The area of the window below the title bar 
		Method: .getRootPane()
		Return type: JRootPane
	Layered Pane
		Corresponds
			This pane corresponds to the whole of the area occupied by the JRootPane object in the window and manages the menu bar if the window has one
		Method: .getLayeredPane()
		Return type: JLayeredPane
	Content Pane
		Corresponds
			The area in the layeredPane below the menu bar corresponds to the contentPane object
			The contentPane is where you normally add components other than a menubar to a window. 
		Method: .getContentPane()
		Return type: Container
	Glass Pane
		Corresponds
			The complete JRootPane area on top o f all the other planes
			This is used to display components that you always want to display on top of anything else displayed in the window
			Examples:
				Drop-down menus
				Animations - When part of what is displayed is to be animated, a static background can be displayed independently via the contentPane. 
		Method: .getGlassPane()
		Return type:  Component

Components
	Parent Component
		When a component is contained within another component, the outer object is referred to as the parent.
		getParent() 
			The method is inherited from Component class.
			It returns a reference of the parent object as a type of CONTAINER.
			Only a subclass of Container can hold other components.
		If there is no parent, as is the case with a JFrame component, this method returns null.
	



Source
	Horton, Chapter 17, p661
